🔎 picoCTF – Insp3ct0r

📌 Challenge Information

Field	Details
Challenge	    Insp3ct0r
Category	    Web Exploitation
Difficulty	  Easy
Event	        picoCTF


📝 Description

Can you get the flag?


🎯 Objective

The goal of this challenge is to inspect the webpage’s source code and discover hidden information that reveals the flag.


🔎 Step 1 — Exploring the Website

Opened the challenge URL in the browser.

The page looked very simple with minimal content.

There was no obvious flag displayed on the page.

👉 Since this is a Web Exploitation (Easy) challenge, it hinted that the flag might be hidden in the frontend code.


🔍 Step 2 — Viewing Page Source

To investigate further:

Right Click → View Page Source

Inside the HTML, I found a comment:

<!-- Hmm, try looking at the CSS -->

This indicated that the flag might be hidden across multiple files.


🎨 Step 3 — Inspecting CSS File

Opened Developer Tools → Sources / Network tab

Located the linked CSS file and opened it.

Inside the CSS file, I found another comment:

/* Maybe the flag is in the JS file */

👉 This suggested the flag was split across different resources.


⚙️ Step 4 — Inspecting JavaScript File

Navigated to the JavaScript file from Developer Tools.

Inside the JS file, I found part of the flag:

// picoCTF{something_here_...


🧩 Step 5 — Combining the Pieces

HTML contained a hint

CSS contained another hint

JavaScript contained the actual flag

After combining all parts, the full flag was revealed.


🏁 Flag
picoCTF{tru3_d3t3ct1ve_0r_ju5t_lucky?302945a7}


📚 What I Learned

How to inspect webpage source code

How developers sometimes leave sensitive data in comments

Importance of checking:

HTML

CSS

JavaScript files

Basic reconnaissance techniques in web exploitation


🔐 Vulnerability

Information Disclosure via Client-Side Files

Sensitive data was exposed in:

HTML comments

CSS comments

JavaScript files

The application relied on obscurity instead of proper security


💡 Key Takeaway

Always inspect all client-side resources — flags and secrets are often hidden in plain sight!
