🌐 picoCTF – WebDecode

📌 Challenge Information

Field	Details:
Challenge	           WebDecode
Category	           Web Exploitation
Difficulty	         Easy
Event	               picoCTF

📝 Description

Do you know how to inspect web pages? Sometimes the flag is hidden in encoded form within the webpage source.

The goal of this challenge is to inspect the webpage and decode hidden information to reveal the flag.


🎯 Objective

The objective of this challenge is to:

Inspect the webpage source code

Identify encoded data

Decode the encoded string to retrieve the flag


🔎 Step 1 — Exploring the Website

After opening the challenge instance, the webpage appeared very simple and did not display any obvious flag.

Since the challenge belongs to Web Exploitation, the next logical step was to inspect the webpage for hidden information.

Common places where flags may be hidden include:

HTML source code

HTML comments

JavaScript files

Encoded text


🔍 Step 2 — Inspecting the Page Source

To analyze the webpage, I opened the page source using:

Right Click → View Page Source

or

Ctrl + U

Inside the HTML source code, I found an encoded string that looked like this:

cGljb0NURnt3ZWJkZWNvZGVfZnVuXzEwYjA1OGUwfQ==

The structure of this string suggested that it was Base64 encoded.


🧠 Step 3 — Decoding the Encoded String

Base64 is a common encoding method used to represent binary data in text format.

To decode it, I used a Base64 decoder.

Example using Linux:

echo "cGljb0NURnt3ZWJkZWNvZGVfZnVuXzEwYjA1OGUwfQ==" | base64 -d

You can also use online tools like CyberChef.

After decoding the string, the hidden flag was revealed.


🏁 Step 4 — Finding the Flag

After decoding the Base64 string, the result was:

picoCTF{webdecode_fun_10b058e0}

This was the flag for the challenge.


📚 What I Learned

From this challenge, I learned:

How to inspect webpage source code

How flags can be hidden inside encoded data

How to recognize Base64 encoded strings

How to decode encoded data using tools like CyberChef or the Linux terminal


🔐 Vulnerability / Concept

This challenge demonstrates a common beginner concept in web exploitation:

Information Disclosure through Encoded Data

The flag was hidden in the webpage using Base64 encoding, which is not secure encryption but simply a way to encode text.

Anyone inspecting the page source could decode it and retrieve the flag.


🏴 Flag
picoCTF{webdecode_fun_10b058e0}


✍️ Author
Gowshik Balakumar
Cybersecurity Learner | Linux Enthusiast | Web Security Explorer
