🤖 Where are the robots - PicoCTF

📌 Challenge Information
Field	Details
Challenge	    Where are the robots
Category	    Web Exploitation
Difficulty	  Easy
Event	        picoCTF


📝 Description

Can you find the robots?

Sometimes websites hide important paths using a special file called robots.txt. This file tells web crawlers which parts of the website they should or should not access.

The goal of this challenge is to inspect the robots.txt file and discover hidden directories that might contain the flag.


🎯 Objective

The objective of this challenge is to:

Understand how the robots.txt file works

Identify hidden directories listed in robots.txt

Navigate to the restricted directory to find the flag


🔎 Step 1 — Exploring the Website

After opening the challenge webpage, the site appeared very simple and did not show any obvious hints or flags.

Since the challenge belongs to Web Exploitation, I started looking for common web files that may reveal hidden information.

One common file used by websites is:

robots.txt

This file is usually located at the root of a website.

Example:

http://fickle-tempest.picoctf.net:60592/robots.txt


🔍 Step 2 — Checking the robots.txt File

I navigated to the robots.txt file by adding /robots.txt to the challenge URL.

Example:

http://fickle-tempest.picoctf.net:60592/robots.txt

Inside the file, I found the following content:

User-agent: *
Disallow: /1bb4c.html

The Disallow directive indicates a directory or file that web crawlers should avoid indexing.

However, it can still be accessed directly through the browser.


🧠 Step 3 — Accessing the Hidden Path

Since the robots.txt file revealed the path:

/1bb4c.html

I navigated to:

http://fickle-tempest.picoctf.net:60592/1bb4c.html

After opening this page, the flag appeared directly on the webpage.


🏁 Step 4 — Finding the Flag

When visiting the hidden page, the flag was displayed.

picoCTF{ca1cu1at1ng_Mach1n3s_cc6b1}

📚 What I Learned

From this challenge, I learned:

How the robots.txt file works

How websites use robots.txt to control search engine crawlers

How attackers can use robots.txt to discover hidden directories

Basic web reconnaissance techniques


🔐 Vulnerability / Concept

This challenge demonstrates a common concept in web security:

Information Disclosure through robots.txt

The robots.txt file revealed a hidden path that should not be indexed by search engines. However, anyone who reads the file can still access the directory manually.


🏴 Flag

 picoCTF{ca1cu1at1ng_Mach1n3s_cc6b1}

✍️ Author
Gowshik Balakumar
Cybersecurity Learner | Linux Enthusiast | Web Security Explorer
